layout: post
title: "Duda was assured that the case with the missile did not affect relations with Ukraine"
The fall of the rocket on the territory of Poland near the border with Ukraine did not affect relations between the countries.

This was stated by the head of the Bureau of International Policy under the President of Poland, Jakub Kumoch, on Polsat News.

When asked whether the relations between Warsaw and Kyiv changed in any way after the rocket fell on the territory of Poland, he answered that there was no increased tension between the parties. There were also no sharp exchanges of views between the presidents of the countries.

Kumokh noted that Warsaw wanted to find out whether there was an attack on Poland.


"Poland was not attacked. A tragic incident happened in Poland. Of course, Russia is to blame, as it is terrorizing Ukraine and causing what happened," Kumokh emphasized.

We will remind you that on November 15, Russia launched a massive missile attack on Ukraine that lasted almost 4 hours. In total, the occupiers fired 96 rockets across the country, which hit about 15 energy infrastructure facilities.

In the evening of the same day, it became known that in the Polish village of Przewodów, not far from the border with Ukraine, two rockets fell on the territory of an agricultural enterprise. Two people died, agricultural machinery was damaged.

Polish journalist Mateusz Lachowski, citing an expert at the scene, reported that the debris at the site of the explosion may belong to the Russian X-101 missile.

Immediately after the incident, the Polish government announced its intention to launch a consultation procedure under Article 4 of NATO.

US President Joe Biden held an emergency meeting with G7 and EU leaders over the incident. According to its results, the head of the White House suddenly announced that a missile of the S-300 anti-aircraft missile complex of Ukrainian air defense could have fallen in Poland. Allegedly, American intelligence has data on the launch of Ukrainian air defense missiles shortly before the strike on a Polish settlement.


After such a statement by the Americans, Polish President Andrzej Duda said that the missile strikes in the east of the country were an accident, and Warsaw does not consider the incident an attack on the country. He added that an S-300 type missile fell on the territory of Poland and that it was probably a missile that was "used by Ukrainian forces" in the process of shooting down a Russian missile attack. Duda also stated that he refused to hold consultations with NATO members in accordance with Article 4 of the Alliance Charter.

The US National Security Council blamed Russia for the incident, regardless of the results of the investigation. The United States also trusts the Polish investigation, which established that the incident was most likely caused by a Ukrainian anti-aircraft missile.

Meanwhile, President Volodymyr Zelensky hinted that the West is trying to hide the fact that a Russian missile hit Poland, passing it off as a Ukrainian one. He demands that Ukraine be admitted to the investigation.

Andrzej Duda said that Poland and the US must come to an agreement before Ukraine can take part in the investigation of the incident.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said that NATO allies will help create a multi-level air defense system in Ukraine.
date: 2022-11-18 10:20:11 -0000
categories: Policy
